Splitter: describe API (#6118)
DevExpress/devextreme-documentation: api-reference/10 UI Components/dxSplitter/7 Interfaces/dxSplitterItem/size.md

---
---
##### jQuery

    <!-- tab: index.js -->
    $(() => {
        $("#splitter").dxSplitter({
            items: [
                {
                    // ...
                    size: "50%",
                }
            ],
        });
    });

##### Angular

    <!-- tab: app.component.html -->
    <dx-splitter ... >
        <dxi-item ...
            size="50%"
        >
        </dxi-item>
    </dx-splitter>

##### Vue

    <!-- tab: App.vue -->
    <template>
        <DxSplitter ... >
            <DxItem ... 
                size="50%"
            />
        </DxSplitter>
    </template>

    <script setup>
    import { DxSplitter, DxItem } from "devextreme-vue/splitter";
    </script>

##### React

    <!-- tab: App.js -->
    import React from "react";
    import Splitter, { Item } from "devextreme-react/splitter";

    const App = () => (
        <React.Fragment>
            <Splitter ... >
                <Item ... 
                    size="50%"
                />
            </Splitter>
        </React.Fragment>
    );

    export default App;

---

If you do not specify pane sizes, the UI component splits up the panes automatically with even distribution.

[note]

> - The **size** value must not exceed [maxSize](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxSplitter/Interfaces/dxSplitterItem/#maxSize) and be less then [minSize](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxSplitter/Interfaces/dxSplitterItem/#minSize).

Reviewer: I don't like the phrase "must not exceed". What will happen if I do try to assign a value that's out of bounds? Size will remain unchanged? Or maybe the size will be set to closest limit? 

If we don't want to answer that question, I guess it's better to still use imperative mood. "Use max and min to specify contstraints."

```suggestion
- You can use [minSize](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxSplitter/Interfaces/dxSplitterItem/#minSize) and [maxSize](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxSplitter/Interfaces/dxSplitterItem/#maxSize) properties to specify size constraints.
```
